## TEI Blog ##

## Process ##

Before I started coding my assigned portion of “The Yellow-Wall-paper”, we were assigned to read it for class. I was very excited for this, because I had read it and written a paper on the story before, and was glad to have prior experience with the text. I noticed that the author has a unique style of writing, and it was very disjointed. I could sense the character’s depression and anxiety because of the way that Perkins-Gilman wrote it. Reading the story for a second time helped me understand why the code looked the way it did, and made the process smoother as a whole.

## *Google Doc ##

When I first opened the Google Doc during class, as directed by my professor, I was immediately intimidated. I was confused at what exactly I was supposed to do, but my professor quickly eased all of our nerves and helped explain the process of coding. I got the hang inserting the tags after the first few lines, and it did not take me very long to complete it. I was happy with my progress, and was ready to start using Oxygen, even though that looked scary as well.

## *Oxygen* ##

After downloading Oxygen, the coding software, my first reaction was to be scared to touch anything. I gained some confidence because my professor uploaded a video showing a step-by-step process of how to use it, and how to do the assignment. I constantly paused the video to follow along, and gradually felt better about using the software. As I went along, a lot of my paragraphs coded perfectly on the first try. On the other hand, several did not. It was hard for me to figure out the problem, and why there was an angry red message on my screen telling that my code was wrong. Every time, it was a very small detail like an extra space, and not enough spaces that caused my code not to be validated. Eventually I was able to get through it, and had a sigh of relief once I was finally finished. Overall, it did not take me that long to complete, but it was still very nerve racking to use coding software.

## *Final Thoughts* ##

Coding was scary when I first started it, and although it is still a little scary now, I feel more confident with my coding abilities. I’m typically scared to try new things, especially if they are related to technology, but now I feel as though I could help someone use Oxygen if they needed it. Using the Google Doc first was very helpful because I was able to see what I was doing better, and iron out most of my mistakes there. I am very glad my professor gave us the opportunity to use the Google Doc instead of having us use Oxygen from the beginning, because it lowered my anxiety levels about the project. All in all, I had a good experience doing this project, and I am glad that I obtained a new skill. I may do basic coding with my students in the future, so I am glad that I am able to practice now so that I can possibly help my students become more technology savvy in the future.
